README for Phoinix
==================

If you're looking for a Readme for users, please look in one of the
subdirectories LC_* which contain localized versions of text and
resource. This is for programmers who like to build it from source.

What is Phoinix?
----------------

Phoinix ['foiniks] is the greek word for the date palm. It is the name
for the mystic bird which burns itself after 500 years and is reborn
out of its ashes, too.

In this context Phoinix is the name of a Nintendo Gameboy(TM) emulator
for the Palm OS(R) Computing Platform. It was formerly known as
PalmBoy, but Palm Inc. claims the word "Palm" as a trademark.

Copyleft
--------

Copyright 2000-2007 Bodo Wenzel.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307
USA

Building
--------

The source files are created to be used with the GNU tool set. You'll
find the SDK at Palm's site (http://www.palm.com). You need the header
files for PalmOS 5 or better.

Unpack the source's archive and enter "make". The executables are in
the directories beginning with LC_, separated by language.

Before trying to compile, read the chapter 'Prerequisites', please.

Prerequisites
-------------

Phoinix supports several third party extensions. To include this
support you need the corresponding header files in your system include
directory.

Beginning with some certain version of the Palm SDK the script
"palmdev-prep" can be used to set up the directories automatically.

This is the list of third party SDKs needed:

* Sony Clié SDK
* HandEra SDK
* AlphaSmart SDK
* GamePad DK
* Fossil Wrist PDA SDK

The following URLs may be out of date. Please use your brain to obtain
the SDKs by yourself, if you find a link broken.

The Sony Clié SDK can be obtained from http://www.us.sonypdadev.com/
by following the links. Obviously Sony supports only CodeWarrior on
Windows, so you have to convert all enum's of trap numbers into
#define's.

The HandEra SDK can be obtained from
http://www.handera.com/support/developsupport.asp.
Please install all files from the include branch in a directory named
'HandEra' under your system include directory so that Vga.h becomes
<your-inc-path>/HandEra/Vga.h.

For the AlphaSmart Dana you need the corresponding SDK, please visit
http://www.alphasmart.com and follow the links which are hopefully
provided.

The GamePad driver kit can be obtained from
http://www.palmgamepad.com/
and in the developers' section is a link to the file
GamePadDevKit.zip. Copy GPDLib.h from this archive to your system
include directory.

To obtain the Wrist PDA SDK visit http://www.fossil.com/tech, and
follow the appropriate links. Copy the header files where they belong
into, and don't forget JotAPI.h.

Your system include path includes probably something like
/opt/palmdev/include, but you might want to ask your gcc with
"-dumpspecs".

Unfortunately some of these files are in DOS format (end-of-line by
CR/LF) and have to be converted to Unix style (e.g. with recode or
dos2unix). If you get "stray \ " error messages, you didn't correctly
convert these files and they are still in DOS mode.

The calls of PilRC (the ressource compiler) use several new options;
you need at least version 3.2!

Getting help
------------

Please use the mailing list for developers:
http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/phoinix-devel

For special cases send an email to the author:
palm.gb_emu@gmx.de

Contribute translations
-----------------------

The homepage provides an archive with a verbose description how and
what to translate. Please download this file and read it. Here is just
a very brief description:

To add another localizes version, create an appropriate directory
LC_<language>_<country> with <language> in small letters and <country>
in capitals. Create three files in this directory:

'GPL.txt' contains the translated GNU General Public License.

'Phoinix.txt' contains the translated Readme for users.

'Phoinix.rcp.in' contains the source for all resources with translated
texts.

Please use the english (LC_en_GB) version as basis.

Trademarks
----------

"Palm" is a registered trademark of Palm.
"Gameboy" is a registered trademark of Nintendo.
