Phoinix.txt
===========

What is Phoinix?
----------------

Phoinix ['foiniks] is the greek word for date palm. It is the name for
the mystic bird which burns itself after 500 years and is reborn out
of its ashes, too.

In this context Phoinix is the name of a Nintendo Gameboy(TM) emulator
for the Palm OS(R) Computing Platform. It was formerly known as
PalmBoy, but Palm Inc. claims the word "Palm" as a trademark.

Other languages
---------------

The standard language of Phoinix is english. Other languages are
supported just in the application and the READMEs. All other texts are
currently in english, sorry.

Copyleft
--------

Copyright 2000-2002 Bodo Wenzel.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307
USA

Quick start
-----------

Please visit the homepage at http://phoinix.sourceforge.net as
mentioned in the info texts of the application. There are lots of
information, and most of the stuff you might look for.

Choose the archive of the language you like, and unzip it (if you read
this text, you've done it probably). Then install the file
"Phoinix.prc" the usual way.

To get you up and running, there are some free games in the archive
"freegame.zip". They are already converted, just unzip and install
like before.

Now have fun...

Next, you might wish to read the documentation. To keep things simple
to maintain, I have zipped the web files into "doc.zip". Please
download this archive, and unzip it where you like. Use any browser to
read the documents, you can use any text editor, too.

If you need help
----------------

Read all the documentation (in "doc.zip" and the built-in tips)
carefully. There are good chances that your question is already
answered.

If you think it is NOT answered, send a mail with enough information
to the appropriate address listed in the docs. Questions like "Why
doesn't it run?" are much too general to be answered. Describe your
problem quite clearly.

Don't ask how to get images of commercial games. This is illegal all
over the world! Such requests are silently ignored.

Trademarks
----------

"Palm" is a registered trademark of Palm.
"Gameboy" is a registered trademark of Nintendo.
